{{target: component-aria}}

# aria

W3C defined the Accessible Rich Internet Applications Suite ([WAI-ARIA](https://www.w3.org/WAI/intro/aria)) to make Web content and Web applications more accessible to the disabled. From ECharts 4.0, we support ARIA by generating description for charts automatically.

By default, ARIA is disabled. To enable it, you should set [aria.show](~aria.show) to be `true`. After enabling, it will generate descriptions based on charts, series, data, and so on. Users may change the generated description.

**For example:**

For config:

```js
option = {
    aria: {
        show: true
    },
    title: {
        text: 'Source of user access to a site',
        x: 'center'
    },
    series: [
        {
             Name: 'access source',
            type: 'pie',
            data: [
                { value: 335, name: 'direct access' },
                { value: 310, name: 'mail marketing' },
                { value: 234, name: 'union ad' },
                { value: 135, name: 'video ad' },
                { value: 1548, name: 'search engine' }
            ]
        }
    ]
};
```

~[700x300](${galleryViewPath}doc-example/aria-pie&edit=1&reset=1)

There should be an `aria-label` attribute on the chart DOM, which can help the disabled understand the content of charts with the help of certain devices. The value of the label is:

```
This is a chart about "Source of user access to a site" with type Pie chart named access source. The data is as follows: the data of direct access is 335,the data of mail marketing is 310,the data of union ad is 234,the data of video ad is 135,the data of search engine is 1548.
```

The default language is in Chinese, but you can configure it with templates. The following document shows how to do it.


## show(boolean) = false

Whether to enable ARIA. When enabled, there should be an `aria-label` label.

## description(string) = null

By default, the description is generated by our algorithm based on charts. If user wants to set their own description, `description` should be set to the whole description.

This is useful when single data values cannot represent what the chart means. For example, if the chart is a map containing many scatter points. Default description can only show the data, but the users may find it hard to interpret. In this case, `description` should be set to describe the meaning of chart.


## general(Object)

General description of chart.

### withTitle(string) = 'This is a chart about "{title}"'

If [title.text](~title.text) exists, then this is used. Template variable:

- `{title}`: will be replaced by [title.text](~title.text).

### withoutTitle(string) = 'This is a chart'

If [title.text](~title.text) does not exist, then this is used.


## series(Object)

Series-related configures.

### maxCount(number) = 10

Maximum series number.

### single(Object)

Description used when there is only one chart.

#### prefix(string) = ''

General description for all series. This displays before all series descriptions. Template variable:

- `{seriesCount}`: will be replaced by series count, which is 1.

#### withName(string) = ' with type {seriesType} named {seriesName}.'

If chart contains `name` attribute, then this is used. Template variable:

- `{seriesName}`: will be replaced by the series `name`;
- `{seriesType}`: will be replaced by the series type name.

#### withoutName(string) = ' with type {seriesType}.'

If chart doesn't contain `name` attribute, then this is used. Template variable:

- `{seriesType}`: will be replaced by series type name.


### multiple(Object)

Description used when there are more than one chart.

#### prefix(string) =  '. It consists of {seriesCount} series count.'

General description for all series. This displays before all series descriptions. Template variable:

- `{seriesCount}`: will be replaced by series count.

#### withName(string) = ' The {seriesId} series is a {seriesType} representing {seriesName}.'

If series contains `name` attribute, then this is used. Template variable:

- `{seriesName}`: will be replaced by series `name`;
- `{seriesType}`: will be replaced by series type name.

#### withoutName(string) = ' The {seriesId} series is a {seriesType}.'

If series doesn't contain `name` attribute, then this is used. Template variable:

- `{seriesType}`: will be replaced by series type name.

#### separator(Object)

Separators between series and series.

##### middle(string) = ''

Separators other than the last one.

##### end(string) = ''

The last series seperator.




## data(Object)

Data-related configures.

### maxCount(number) = 10

Maximum data number.

### allData(string) = 'The data is as follows: '

Description used when all data is displayed. Note that this option will **not** set to display all data. If all data should be displayed, [aria.data.maxCount](~aria.data.maxCount) should be set to be `Number.MAX_VALUE`.

### partialData(string) = 'The first {displayCnt} items are: '

Description used when only part of data is displayed. Template variable:

- `{displayCnt}`: number of data displayed.

### withName(string) = 'the data for {name} is {value}'

If data contains `name` attribute, then this is used. Template variable:

- `{name}`: will be replaced by data `name`;
- `{value}`: will be replaced by data value.

### withoutName(string) = '{value}'

If data doesn't contain `name` attribute, then this is used. Template variable:

- `{value}`: will be replaced by data value.

### separator(Object)

Separators between data and data.

#### middle(string) = ', '

Separators other than the last one.

#### end(string) = ''

The last data separator.

Note that since series `separator.end` is used after the last data, `data.separator.end` is not needed in most cases.
